Update: Upgrade toolkit to update 11 and use SPM (#1062)
Esri/arcgis-runtime-samples-ios: README.md

The *ArcGIS Runtime SDK Samples app* has a *Target SDK* version of *13.0*, meaning that it can run on devices with *iOS 13.0* or newer.

## Building Samples Using Swift Package Manager

1. **Fork** and then **clone** the repository

> 1. **Run** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` app target

Reviewer: Before this step, we need one that says open the project file. Something like - 

1. **Open** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples.xcodeproj` **project** file
> The project has been configured to use the swift package for [ArcGIS Runtime iOS Toolkit](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios). Xcode will automatically start downloading the latest toolkit, and in turn, the swift package for [ArcGIS Runtime iOS SDK](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-ios) which the toolkit depends upon.

> > To add the Swift Packages to your project, consult the [documentation](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios/#swift-package-manager) in the ArcGIS Runtime Toolkit repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To add the Swift Packages to your own projects, consult the documentation for the [ArcGIS Runtime iOS Toolkit](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios/#swift-package-manager) and [ArcGIS Runtime iOS SDK](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-ios#instructions).
```

## Building Samples Using CocoaPods

1. **Fork** and then **clone** the repository
1. **Install** the ArcGIS Runtime SDK for iOS by running the `pod install` command in the folder where you cloned this repository
1. **Open** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples.xcworkspace` **workspace** file

> 1. **Select** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` project node, go to the `Swift Packages` tab, and **delete** the `arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios` package. (This Swift Package conflicts with CocoaPods and is only required when using the Swift Package Manager as described in the previous section)

Reviewer 2: Maybe this should be done after the fork and clone to avoid the collision.

Reviewer: @zkline101 I thought about too, but if it is not technically necessary, then these steps are a better flow for the user. Otherwise, they'll have to open the xcode project....delete sp dependency... close the project.... run pod install....open workspace..... too...much...faff

Author: 😂  I agree with both... cannot decide which way to go. Should I just revert?

Reviewer: Test If the current sequence works, and if it does, keep it.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, @dg0yal is right it kinda messes up the flow. Can you revert please?

> 1. **Select** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` project node, go to the `Swift Packages` tab, and **delete** the `arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios` package. (This Swift Package conflicts with CocoaPods and is only required when using the Swift Package Manager as described in the previous section)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Select** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` project node, go to the `Swift Packages` tab, and **delete** the `arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios` package. This Swift Package conflicts with CocoaPods and is only required when using the Swift Package Manager as described in the previous section.
```

The *ArcGIS Runtime SDK Samples app* has a *Target SDK* version of *13.0*, meaning that it can run on devices with *iOS 13.0* or newer.

## Building Samples Using Swift Package Manager

1. **Fork** and then **clone** the repository
1. **Open** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples.xcodeproj` **project** file
    > The project has been configured to use the Swift Package for ArcGIS Runtime iOS Toolkit. Xcode will automatically start downloading the latest toolkit, and in turn, the package for ArcGIS Runtime iOS SDK which the toolkit depends upon.
1. **Run** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` app target

> To add the Swift Packages to your own projects, consult the documentation for the [ArcGIS Runtime iOS Toolkit](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios/#swift-package-manager) and [ArcGIS Runtime iOS SDK](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-ios#instructions).

## Building Samples Using CocoaPods

1. **Fork** and then **clone** the repository
1. **Install** the ArcGIS Runtime SDK for iOS by running the `pod install` command in the folder where you cloned this repository
1. **Open** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples.xcworkspace` **workspace** file

> 1. **Select** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` project node, go to the `Swift Packages` tab, and **delete** the `arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios` package. This Swift Package conflicts with CocoaPods and is only required when using the Swift Package Manager as described in the previous section.

Reviewer: Zack is making these changes to the Toolkit manifest. I created a PR for the SDK manifest

> 1. **Select** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` project node, go to the `Swift Packages` tab, and **delete** the `arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios` package. This Swift Package conflicts with CocoaPods and is only required when using the Swift Package Manager as described in the previous section.

Author: Thanks for making this change. I was just about to push from local. 😅  Y'all are really fast!!

> 1. **Select** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` project node, go to the `Swift Packages` tab, and **delete** the `arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios` package. This Swift Package conflicts with CocoaPods and is only required when using the Swift Package Manager as described in the previous section.

Author: https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios/pull/148

The *ArcGIS Runtime SDK Samples app* has a *Target SDK* version of *13.0*, meaning that it can run on devices with *iOS 13.0* or newer.

## Building Samples Using Swift Package Manager

1. **Fork** and then **clone** the repository
1. **Run** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` app target

> The project is configured to install the ArcGIS Runtime SDK for iOS and ArcGIS Runtime Toolkit with Swift Package Manager.
> To add the Swift Packages to your project, follow the steps below

* Open your project in Xcode
* Go to File > Swift Packages > Add Package Dependency option
* Enter `https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios` as the package repository URL
* Choose version 100.11.0 or a later version. Click Next. Only version 100.11.0 or newer supports Swift Package Manager.

> Note: The Toolkit Swift Package adds the ArcGIS Runtime SDK Swift Package as a dependency, so there is no need to add both separately.
> 
> New to Swift Package Manager? Visit [here](https://swift.org/package-manager/)

> 

Reviewer: Curious why you have these instructions here. Isn't the project already configured with the swift packages that are needed? Or do users have to explicitly add the packages as you describe here

Author: I think they are redundant, but willing to know others thoughts! We can remove these lines...

For SPM setup it is as simple as download and run the project. But users may wonder how to configure SPM similar to our project, so I added these instructions.

Reviewer 2: Maybe show how you added the SP by adding a link to the toolkit README where it explains how the Toolkit SP is added to a project using SPM.

Author: Added a link to the projected `main` branch URL for the toolkit root README.

## Building Samples Using Manually Installed SDK

1. **Install** the ArcGIS Runtime SDK for iOS to a central location on your Mac as described [here](https://developers.arcgis.com/ios/get-started)
1. **Fork** and then **clone** the repository
1. **Download** the package repository for ArcGIS Runtime SDK for iOS [here](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-ios), and extract it to `$HOME/arcgis-runtime-ios`
1. **Create** a symbolic link to the ArcGIS Runtime SDK binary framework
    > `ln -s $HOME/Library/SDKs/ArcGIS/Frameworks/ArcGIS.xcframework $HOME/arcgis-runtime-ios/ArcGIS.xcframework`
1. **Open** the package manifest (Package.swift) for ArcGIS Runtime SDK
    > Change target to
    > `.binaryTarget(name: "ArcGIS", path: "ArcGIS.xcframework")`
1. **Download** the package repository for ArcGIS Runtime Toolkit for iOS [here](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-runtime-toolkit-ios), and extract it to the project directory
1. **Drag** the Toolkit's folder into the Project navigator
    > This action adds your dependency’s Swift package as a local package to your project.
1. **Open** the Toolkit's package manifest
    > Add `import FileProvider`
    >
    > Change dependency to

>     > `.package(name: "ArcGIS", path: "\(FileManager.default.homeDirectoryForCurrentUser.path)/arcgis-runtime-ios")`

Reviewer: @yo1995 Thank you for figuring this out. But for now, let's exclude this section for the upcoming release. I'm a little uncomfortable on how unwieldy it is. We can focus only focus on SPM and cocoapods for the time being while we have some more discussion on the manual option.

Reviewer 2: Agreed 👍

Author: I also agree. Basically if we still want manual support in the future, maybe we need to somehow include 2 package manifests in this repo, and/or have a script to download the source code for toolkit and set things up, so that the whole project's codebase can go completely offline.

1. **Open** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples.xcodeproj` **project** file
1. **Run** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` app target

> For more information on setting up local Swift Packages, visit [here](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift_packages/editing_a_package_dependency_as_a_local_package)

## Building Samples Using CocoaPods

1. **Fork** and then **clone** the repository
1. **Install** the ArcGIS Runtime SDK for iOS by running the `pod install` command in the folder where you cloned this repository
1. **Open** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples.xcworkspace` **workspace** file

> 1. **Run** the `arcgis-ios-sdk-samples` app target

Reviewer 2: Does this still work if the swift packages are already configured in the project at the start?

Author: Good point. It seems there is a missing "Remove the toolkit from dependencies" step, but I have to test that out. 🤐

Reviewer 2: Yes, I can test as well. And just adding the step of removing the toolkit package should be it.
You can remove here (you might already know):
![Screen Shot 2021-04-21 at 3 41 18 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74069582/115629997-2a29d980-a2b8-11eb-8a46-cb5e5d86455b.png)

Author: Added a line of instruction.

Reviewer 2: Yep removing the package and running `pod install` worked for me. Obviously had to change the pod to U10 and ignoring the build errors because it is missing U11 API.
